dayPort Numbers:
		
			Transport layer port numbers:
				How port numbers are used to identify conversation and applicartion that are the destination and source of transmissions
				Setting server:
					- we install services application such as FTP, web or mail and a port number is assigned to each of the application 
					FTP - port 21
					mail - port 25
					web - port 80
				the ports below 1024 are considered as well known ports and clients automatically listens to these ports
				
				Host port are randomly and dynamically assigned above 1024
				example: when the web browser request the web page the destinatoin will be the port 80 of the web server and the source will be the random port say 5020
				TCP and UDP port is responsible for making our device open multiple aps simultaneously and allow communication between them
				
				Ports are assigned and managed by an organization known as the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and
				Numbers (ICANN) and are broken into three categories and range in number from 1 to 65,535:

				. Well-Known Ports - Destination ports that are associated with common network applications are identified as
				well-known ports. These ports are in the range of 1 to 1023.
				. Registered Ports - Ports 1024 through 49151 can be used as either source or destination ports. These can be
				used by organizations to register specific applications such as IM applications.
				. Private Ports - Ports 49152 through 65535 are often used as source ports. These ports can be used by any
				application.
				
		Socket Pairs
			The source and destination ports are placed within the segment. The segments are then encapsulated within an IP packet. The IP packet contains the IP address of the source and destination. 
			The combination of the source IP address and source port number, or the destination IP address and destination port number is known as a socket.
							
			The socket is used to identify the server and service being requested by the client. A client socket might look like this, with 1099 representing the 
			source port number: 192.168.1.5:1099
			
			The socket on a web server might be 192.168.1.7:80
			Together, these two sockets combine to form a socket pair: 192.168.1.5:1099, 192.168.1.7:80
			
			Sockets enable multiple processes, running on a client, to distinguish themselves from each other, and multiple connections to a server process to be 
			distinguished from each other.

			The source port number acts as a return address for the requesting application. The transport layer keeps track of this port and the application
			that initiated the request so that when a response is returned, it can be forwarded to the correct application.
			
		The netstat Command
			Unexplained TCP connections can pose a major security threat. They can indicate that something or someone is connected to the local host.
			Sometimes it is necessary to know which active TCP connections are open and running on a networked host. Netstat is an important network
			utility that can be used to verify those connections. We can enter the command netstat to list the protocols in use, the local address and port numbers,
			the foreign address and port numbers, and the connection state.
						
