	
	Routing to the internet:
	Private IPv4 address and Network Address Translaton(NAT)
		Before the ISP can forward this packet, it must translate the source IPv4 address, which is a private address, to a public IPv4 address using Network Address Translation (NAT). 
		NAT is used to translate between private IPv4 and public IPv4 addresses. This is usually done on the router that connects the internal network to the ISP network. 
		Private IPv4 addresses in the organization’s intranet will be translated to public IPv4 addresses before routing to the internet.	
		
	Special use IPv4 Addresses:
		There are certain addresses, such as the network address and broadcast address, that cannot be assigned to hosts. There are also special addresses that can be assigned to hosts,
		but with restrictions on how those hosts can interact within the network.
	
	Loopback address:
		addresses such as 127.0.0.0/8 or 127.255.255.254 are more commonly identified as 127.0.0.1 and used by host to direct traffic to itself.
		
	Link local address:
		Link-local addresses (169.254.0.0 /16 or 169.254.0.1 to 169.254.255.254) are more commonly known as the Automatic Private IP Addressing (APIPA)
		addresses or self-assigned addresses. They are used by a Windows client to self-configure in the event that the client cannot obtain an IP addressing 
		through other methods. Link-local addresses can be used in a peer-to-peer connection but are not commonly used for this purpose.
		
	Legacy Classful Addressing:
		In 1981, IPv4 addresses were assigned using classful addressing as defined in RFC 790 (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc790), Assigned Numbers. 
		Customers were allocated a network address based on one of three classes, A, B, or C. The RFC divided the unicast ranges into specific classes as follows:

		Class A (0.0.0.0/8 to 127.0.0.0/8) - Designed to support extremely large networks with more than 16 million host addresses. Class A used a fixed /8 prefix
			with the first octet to indicate the network address and the remaining three octets for host addresses (more than 16 million host addresses per network).
		Class B (128.0.0.0 /16 - 191.255.0.0 /16) - Designed to support the needs of moderate to large size networks with up to approximately 65,000 host addresses. 
			Class B used a fixed /16 prefix with the two high-order octets to indicate the network address and the remaining two octets for host addresses 
			(more than 65,000 host addresses per network).
		Class C (192.0.0.0 /24 - 223.255.255.0 /24) - Designed to support small networks with a maximum of 254 hosts. Class C used a fixed /24 prefix with the first 
			three octets to indicate the network and the remaining octet for the host addresses (only 254 host addresses per network).
		Note: There is also a Class D multicast block consisting of 224.0.0.0 to 239.0.0.0 and a Class E experimental address block consisting of 240.0.0.0 - 255.0.0.0.

		At the time, with a limited number of computers using the internet, classful addressing was an effective means to allocate addresses.
		As shown in the figure, Class A and B networks have a very large number of host addresses and Class C has very few. Class A networks accounted for 
		50% of the IPv4 networks. This caused most of the available IPv4 addresses to go unused.
		
		In the mid-1990s, with the introduction of the World Wide Web (WWW), classful addressing was deprecated to more efficiently allocate the limited IPv4 address space. 
		Classful address allocation was replaced with classless addressing, which is used today. Classless addressing ignores the rules of classes (A, B, C). 
		Public IPv4 network addresses (network addresses and subnet masks) are allocated based on the number of addresses that can be justified.
		
	Reeginal internet registries:	
		Both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are managed by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA). 
		The IANA manages and allocates blocks of IP addresses to the Regional Internet Registries (RIRs). 
	
		RIRs are responsible for allocating IP addresses to ISPs who provide IPv4 address blocks to organizations and smaller ISPs. 
		Organizations can also get their addresses directly from an RIR 
		
		AfriNIC (African Network Information Centre) - Africa Region
		APNIC (Asia Pacific Network Information Centre) - Asia/Pacific Region
		ARIN (American Registry for Internet Numbers) - North America Region
		LACNIC (Regional Latin-American and Caribbean IP Address Registry) - Latin America and some Caribbean Islands
		RIPE NCC (Réseaux IP Européens Network Coordination Centre) - Europe, the Middle East, and Central Asia
		
	Network Segmentation
		When a host propagates a (Address Resolution Protocol)ARP request to know the associated MAC address, switches transmit information to all the hosts exept the one it originated from. 
		But the router donot broadcast wich is known as layer 2 broadcast domain.
		
	Broadcast domain and segmentation:
	Routers Segment Broadcast Domains:
	
	Problems with Large Broadcast Domains:
		A large broadcast domain is a network that connects many hosts. A problem with a large broadcast domain is that these hosts can generate excessive broadcasts 
		and negatively affect the network by slowing operations because each broadcast packet must be processed.
		
	Communication between networks:
		We can solve the problem by creating a samaller broadcst domain known as subnettig where the smaller network space are called subnets. Subnetting reduces overall network 
		traffic and improves performance.
		
	Reasons for Segmenting Networks:
		reduces traffic and improve performance
		administrator can implement security policies like which subnet are allowed to communicate to each other
		Redces number of devices affected by malicious behaviour
		
	Ways of using subnet:	
		Subnetting by loacation: like seperate network for seperate regions, district, floor etc
		Subnetting by Group or function: seperate network for administration, HR, Accounting, student etc
		Subnetting by device type: seperate network for host, server etc.
