Cybersecurity
	. There is an estimation that there are one attack every 39 second nowadays
	. Even if you dont have any social media or online accounts setup you have an online identity as long as you are using the internet
	
Types of organizational data
	Traditional data
		Transactional data : buying selling 
		Intellectual property : patents, trademarks and new product plans
		Financial data : Income statements, balance statements and cash flow statements
	
	Internet of Things(IOT) and Big data
		IOT : large network of physical objects such as sensors software and other equipment connected to internet with the ability to collect and share data 
		Large quantity of data because of increased storage due to cloud and virtualization is termed as big data.
		
	The McCumber Cube
		 model framework created by John McCumber in 1991 to help organizations establish and evaluate information security initiatives by considering all of the related factors that impact them. 
     The model has three dimensions:
			1) The foundational principles for protecting the information system
			2) The protection of information at each of its possible stages
			3) The security measures to protect data
		
		1)The foundational principles for protecting the information system
			> (Confidentiality) is a set of rules that prevent the access of data or sensitive inforamtion to unauthorized people. Confidentiality can be achieved by: 
			Two factor authentication, data encryption and two factor authentication
			> Integrity ensures system information or processes from unintentioal or accidental modifications. It can be done by hash function or checksum
			> Availability means authorized person can access the information when needed and the ones without accss cannot. This can be achieved by maintaining equipment,
			performing hardware repairs, keeping operating systems and software up to date, and creating backups.
		
		2)The protection of information at each of its possible stages
			> Processing means the data that is being used to perforn an operation such as updating a database
			> Storage refers to the data that is stored in a memory or in a permanet storage devices such as hard drive, USB etc
			> Transmission refers to data travelling between information systems(data in transit)
			
		3)The security measures to protect data
			> Awareness, training and education
			> Technology refers to the software and hardware based solutions designed to protect information system such as firewalls
			> Policy and procedures
		
Cyberattackes are a group of people who attempt to exploit vulnerability for personal or financial gain. They are interested in everything including 
credit cards informatin to product designs.

Types of attackers
	Amateurs: they use already existing tools in the internet to showcase their skill and cause harm. While they use basic tools,
	the attacks can still have devastating consequences. Also known as 'script kiddies'.
	Hackers:
		This group of attackers break into computer systems or networks to gain access. Depending on the intent of their break in, they can be classified as:
		> White hat attackers break into networks or computer systems to identify any weaknesses so that the security of a system or network can be improved. 
		These break-ins are done with prior permission and any results are reported back to the owner.	
		> Grey hat  may set out to find vulnerabilities in a system but they will only report their findings to the owners of a system if doing so coincides 
		with their agenda. Or they might even publish details about the vulnerability on the internet so that other attackers can exploit it.
		> Black hat take advantage of any vulnerability for illegal personal, financial or political gain.
		
	Orgaized hackers:
		These attackers include organizations of cyber criminals, hacktivists, terrorists and state-sponsored hackers. They are usually highly sophisticated 
		and organized, and may even provide cybercrime as a service to other criminals.
	
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
			
