Network media:	
	 Media provides a channel over which the message travels from source to destination. 
	 It povides the connectivity and path for communication to travel over the network. 
	 
	 Network media types:
		Metal wires within cables: Data is encoded into electrical impulses
		Glass or plastic fibers within cables: Data is encoded into pulses of light
		Wireless transmissoin: Data is encoded via modulation of specific frequencies of electromagnetic waves.
		
		There are four main criteria for choosing network media:
		Maximum distance that the media can sucessfully carry a signal
		environment in which the media will be installed.
		Amount of data and at what speed it should be transmitted
		cost of media and intallation
		
		Commom network cables:
			Twisted-pair cable
			Coaxial cable
			fber-optic cable
			
	Framing the Message with Ethernet:
		Preamble - 7 bytes : Used to get the receiving NIC in sync with the receiving bits that are comming down the cable
		Start Frame Delimiter - 1 byte: Indicates to the receiving NIC following the SFD will be the actual information associated with the ethernet frames
		Destination MAC address 6 bytes: Is the MAC address of the destination on that network
		Source MAC address -6 bytes: MAC address of the device that generated the ethernet frame
		Length Type - 2 bytes: It might be the length of data  or what kind of data is it
		Data 46-1500: It is the main data 
		Frame check sequence - 4 bytes: Used by receiving device for error checking
		
	Encapsulation:
		The process of placing one message format into another message format is known as encapsulation. For instance puttig letter into envelope. 
		Each computer message is encapsulated in a specific format calld frame before it is sent over the network. frame acts as the envelop which contains the information about the sourse and the destination.
		The format and contents of a frame are determined by the type of message being sent and the channel over which it is communicated. 
		
		Example of message foramtting and encapsulation:
		Analogy:
		Network:
		
	The Access Layer:
		The access layer is the part of the network in which people gain access to other hosts and to shared files and
		printers. The access layer provides the first line of networking devices that connect hosts to the wired Ethernet
		network. Within an Ethernet network, each host can connect directly to an access layer networking device
		using an Ethernet cable. Ethernet hubs contain multiple ports that are used to connect hosts to the network. Only one message can be sent at a time or else collision can occur.
			
		Ethernet switches:
			
		MAC address tables:
